A similar non-native male context, but much easier to deal with.
Is this your style context?
Luckily, there's little possibility of someone running a script through CSIS, but we still need to
be very careful.
If you allow any unfiltered input in this user's context, a malicious user can play with existing elements
visual aspects like to them or reposition, but also add content to the website using pseudo selectors,
content and background properties.
See the example.
If somehow the body color variable gets manipulated into something like this.
The resulting serious code would be this.
Let me reformat the code for you so it's easier to read.
So it's basically setting the background color.
But after that, it introduces a couple of other rules.
The first one hides any element.
And the other one adds some nasty message.
The final rule is just to avoid syntax error.
Instead of the textual content in the after studio element, a malicious user could put some background
image in the HTML or body elements with the same message or something much worse to damage your reputation.
You get the idea how dangerous it is.
So let's see how to protect ourselves.
Usually you would want to put user input as a property value, just like we did before.
I'd recommend to use a strict regular expression in all such places.
In this case, we expect the call in hexadecimal notation.
So you should filter out all characters which are not digits and letters A to F and prepared it with
hash sign and ensure the final string is four or seven characters long.
That's three or six plus hash.
If you expect a distance like a value for top margin, you can filter out everything a part of digits
dot letter and the person sign.
Letters and person signs are of course needed only in case the user is going to specify the unit.
If you expect a value in a defined unit like pixel or percent, you can only digits and the DOD and
the DOD only if you accept non integer values.
If you only accept integral values, you can simply cast the input to integer within the function as
the only allowed character would be digits anyway.
These examples will of course not allow a value calculated with function.
If you want to allow it, you'd have to let in also math operators plus minus slash and asterisk, parentheses
and space.
How do you think?
Is it still safe?
Well, yes, but not entirely.
The same set of characters could be used to formulate the expression of function instead of calc.
This function allowed to run the JavaScript code, but it was only understood by Internet Explorer prior
to version eight.
So theoretically, any damage is quite limited unless you use Internet Explorer compatibility modes,
in which case even newer versions will understand this function and will be potentially vulnerable.
Another common scenario is to provide a background image you earn if you place images from CMS in background.
You can style the background in the static cases file, but the image URL needs to be added dynamically.
And now this is tricky because we have a chain of contexts here.
You are the context inside this property.
Context is site attribute value context.
We will learn about the URL context in a while because it can be found as a sub context, not only in
C assess context, but also JavaScript and various HTML contexts.
We will cover exactly that case in a couple of minutes.
For now, let's continue with the theses context specific issues.
So another place where you might want to put user input is to form a selector or part of the selector.
Suppose the other device has different styling based on its type?
If somehow the diff type variable gets manipulated into something like this.
The resulting causes would be this.
Let me reformat the code so it's easier to read.
So we end up with an empty stylebook for our other element, the malicious entry that hides the entire
body element.
And they use this style for an element which is X.
Just for the sake of having a valid code block.
This code can be secured by using very strict regular expression or even better whitelist.
However, often it's enough to redesign your logic.
Instead of printing the element, add or class, use a predefined class or set of classes and turn it
on or off when the value from CMS matches.
In case the diff type is something we didn't expect.
The element will not have a red border, but there will be no extra damage like hidden body element.
As you could see, there's quite a lot an attacker can do with scissors, although they most likely
will not be able to run any script or steal data.
They could damage your reputation or even compromise your site.
And in most of these examples, using only a team of special task function will fail to protect you
from malicious user input.
Finally accepting actual CCS code coming from users.
Just like accepting actual JavaScript code is working on the very, very thin ice.
If you allow it, you will almost always be susceptible to cross-site scripting attacks.